>> Josh Long: But
now let's look at Spring boot.
What does Spring boot do?
Well, remember I told you about how
there's this configuration mechanism,
this convention over configuration.
Spring boot gives you
the best of both worlds.
It gives you the ability to create as
expressive configuration as you want,
just as I just did with all
those different objects.
But it gives you some defaults,
some useful defaults.
So here I've got my service,
my customer service, right?
Just as before, nothing changed there.
Got my LoggingBeanPostProcessor, right?
And I've got my public static void
main spring boot application.
Where's the database?
Where's the schema initialization?
Where's most of it?
All that code I deleted,
I don't need it anymore.
So if you go back to the test,
the test also gets a little bit easier cuz
now I can use spring boot test
instead of using SpringJUnitConfig.
So the same basically, and also I'm using
this nice extension to capture the output,
this is standard out and
I can do assertions against
the output there, right?
So let's start
the Spring Boot application.
And you can see the Spring boot
application has very importantly, very
good ask get work banner as get work is
key to successful production deployments.
It also has everything else,
shutting down customer service,
the logability, all that kind of stuff.
So everything is the same as before,
but I wrote much less code.
And the reason that's true is
because I have auto configuration.
The auto configuration is
the key to spring boot.
This is why it's so consistent in
large organizations and small.
If you wanna get something up and running
out the door in as few lines as possible,
there's nothing more concise than your
typical Spring Boot application, right?
I built an application that talks to
a SQL database, has observability,
is production worthy, has a container.
And I just went to starts out Spring I.O.
and I wrote six lines of code or
whatever it was earlier, right?
Ten lines of code.
It's very, very concise.
But it scales, that's the difference.
That consistency scales and
the way it scales is through this
thing called auto configuration.
The auto configuration works,
when spring boot starts up,
it looks on the class path and it finds
this text file called spring.factories.
This is what makes Spring boot, Spring
boot and everything else Spring framework.
So you look for spring.factories,
this is a service loader, okay?
Spring will find this class in
the meta inf directory of your code.
Where's my go over here,
where's my target?
It looks for the meta inf/.
Meta inf spring.factories.
It'll find this class and
it'll find a key followed by a common
delimited list of class names.
And these keys get used for
different lifecycle pieces.
There's another file that it looks for
called autoconfiguration imports Imports.
And this file lives in spring boot jars.
You can see this one lives in
metainf spring Org springframework
Boot auto configure
Autoconfiguration imports.
That's a text file.
The name of the file is called
autoconfiguration Imports, right?
Actually, no,
it's called org spring framework Boot auto
configure Auto configuration dot imports.
And it's just a long list of Java classes.
These classes get evaluated
when the program starts up.
So if you look at rabbit auto
configuration for RabbitMQ,
you can see it's got a lot of red here,
right?
Look at that.
Somebody I forgot about this class.
This rabbit auto configuration
is a configuration class,
it defines a bunch of objects.
But it has these tests,
these tests, these conditions.
This condition says run
the RabbitAutoConfiguration, but
only if there is a Rabbit
template.class on the class path and
only if channel class
is on the class path.
It's like an if def macro in C, right?
But it's happening at runtime,
it's when the program starts up.
So we, we add the body of this
configuration to all the objects that
are in play, but
only if this type is on the class path.
If the library is on the class path.
If it's not there, then don't bother
because we would surely get a no class def
error or a class not found exception or
something like that.
So this is very, very dynamic.
What it means is that if you
wanna have a default experience,
you go to start spring IO,
you choose some of those starters,
those checkboxes that I showed
you earlier, those over here.
If I go here, if I choose web,
that spring web is gonna
give me spring boot starter web,
that's a starter.
These starters are packaged
with auto configuration.
You just add that to the classpath and
it automatically runs a web server for
you and it installs spring MVC for you.
And it sets up the servlet stack and
it installs JSON marshalling and
XML marshaling and form handling
just by the presence of the build.
I've done nothing to the code, right?
Nothing has changed to get all of that.
That's because of the presence of these
auto configured starters, that's very,
very powerful.
Now because these starters
are smart enough to be dynamic,
there's also other conditions.
I've got these conditional
on missing bean.
These conditional on missing
bean say create this object,
but only if the user hasn't provided
the same object themselves.
So if I were to, in my own code over here,
create a bean of type blah, right?
It's gonna fail cuz I don't have that
type in the classpath, I don't think.
I do.
Why do I have that in the class path?
Well, whatever.
The point is, if I did this by myself,
then spring boot would defer to me,
it would not bother creating this one for
me.
So even though it provides one,
it provides this one right here,
it's a bean method, just like we
saw in my own code back over here.
This is an embedded database that
I've got a bean method on it.
If I didn't provide this, it would give
me a default one, but if I do provide it,
it backs away immediately.
So this is a framework in the sense that
it's open for extension, but closed for
modification, right?
When we say closed for modification,
we mean you don't have to fork Spring
to change the way Spring behaves.
You can, it's open source, patch, it's
licensed, be our guest, but the point is,
you don't need to, right?
These are all little
cogs in the machine and
you can swap them out the whole system.
You don't have to unwind the whole stack
like you do with Rails to change one
little part of it, okay?
Okay, so there's lots of other conditions
you can do conditional on missing bean,
conditional on class,
conditional on property,
like a property in the environment.
You can look for all sorts of different
conditions that make these dynamic auto
configurations very, very, very powerful.
Okay, so back to Readme here.
So now we talked about
configuration before.
When I talk about configuration,
it's a little confusing.
I mean, there's Java config, which is
the class that has the bean methods, and
there's also these properties, right?
We talked about that as well, I just wanna
reiterate that you can get access to
various properties in Spring that
come from the environment, right?
So this environment thing is a dictionary,
it's a key in value dictionary, and
it gives you access to properties
that you put in your application
properties file into D command line
properties into environment variables,
into things that are in HashiCorp vault or
your Google Cloud's vault or whatever.
All these different things where
you can source keys and values,
they can be added as a property source
to the Spring framework environment.
And then that Spring framework environment
can make those things available to you for
Injection directly like this,
beans, whatever, or
bound it to a Java object like this.
So property configuration,
beans properties.
So here's the configuration,
property configuration, etc.
Any questions on this?
Why does this matter?
Because one of the easiest ways to
impact the behavior of the program is to
set a property.
So you need to source them
from wherever you want.
Environment variables, property files,
application YAML, application properties,
d arguments, whatever.
When they're sourced,
they're available via the environment.
You can get them as values
injected into various places, or
you can have them bound to
Java objects like this.
I'm binding beans message to a strongly
typed object that I wrote called beans
properties or beans properties and
the prefix is beans and
the message the key is called message.
This mechanism right here means that
if I want a strongly typed carrier for
those configuration values
that the user specified,
I can just inject bean's properties and
anywhere in my code and I'll get it.
So that's what I'm doing here.
This test is getting the same key directly
from the raw environment, injected as
a value or bound to a type safe thing,
but the result is the exact same value.
In all three cases,
we're expecting it to be hello world.
If I run this, the test is green.
It's not much to see.
The point is, if I change,
if I set up an environment variable or
a property on the command line dash d,
that'll override this inbuilt value.
Right now it's sourcing
that value from here.
So far, so good.
Events Finally,
Spring emits a lot of events.
These events tell you how the
application's behaving the lifecycle of
various things.
But it's not just pure infrastructure.
It's like if you're using spring security,
there's an event when somebody
authenticates these events get dispatched
to any component in the spring context
that wants to listen to these events.
So here I have an events application,
public, static, void, main I've got
atomic thread safe variable to increment
and I'm incrementing the variable.
Whenever the application is ready,
I have an event listener.
I'm saying I want to listen for
the event called applicationready event.
I have another event when
the context is refreshed and
when somebody publishes a spring
is awesome event, right?
So you can create your own events
as well and you can publish those.
And these can be any component anywhere in
the code base can have event listener and
a method.
It can be called whatever on foo it
doesn't, you know, or just spring is
awesome event, you know, whatever you can
call this method whatever you want, but
as long as you have the type of
the event and the parameter.
The other way around, the other way you
could do it is to do Spring is awesome
event.class and then don't do a parameter.
But that's only if you don't care
about the event type itself,
which I do in this case.
And all I'm doing is for
each of these three different events,
these are all distinct, right?
I'm gonna call this register method,
I'm incrementing the counter so
there are three events we should expect
then, the counter will be three.
I said, you can also publish your own
events, so application, event, publisher,
I'm injecting that.
I'm gonna publish event called Spring is
awesome event, and it'll get dispatched
to all the components in my context, which
in this case is just this one class, okay?
So if we run this.
Here we go, and
we should see that the value is three
cuz we've got three different listeners.
All right, there we go, that's events,
we're gonna see events a lot.
Events are how you communicate
state from one system to another,
from one component to another,
from one module to another.
They're useful for hooking into things
like, okay, the web server is initialized,
I have a port.
Now what?
Right after the web server is initialized,
I need to start warming
up some cache maybe.
Or I can hook into somebody's
authenticator, or there's been somebody
that didn't authenticate,
they had an authentication failure, or
a customer checked out on
the shopping cart, right?
You can asynchronously integrate things
into the lifecycle of these applications
by publishing and consuming events.